it is my privilege to introduce our
guest speaker there are plenty of places
you can learn about his distinguished
career so instead of repeating those
details I want to briefly describe what
Dr Muer's work means to me as a Premed
student what is most remarkable to me
about Dr mukerji's career is the breath
of his understanding he is an incredibly
accomplished doctor and researcher who
deeply understands the canc the science
of cancer research and is advancing it
in his lab he is also a great historian
who shows us how the most current and
Advanced Medical Science is the product
of very long historical processes and
thirdly he understands people in his
books essays documentaries and lectures
he has illuminated how Society politics
and human human behavior all shape
science this is what is remarkable and
inspiring to me as someone who is
hopefully starting a career in
medicine during my time and Professor
Lois banta's lab this year Professor B
theon's in previous years and throughout
my college lab courses I've worked with
professors and classmates to study a
number of biological processes across a
range of disciplines I've had incredible
experiences in the lab and ultimately
I'm inspired by opportunities to conduct
research that could be scientifically
and medically useful but as I get ready
to leave Williams and pursue medical
school I also have to think about the
human aspects we pursue our studies out
of science scientific curiosity but also
because we want to help people and we do
that work in a historical and social
context amid ethical and political and
economic debates among others ultimately
medicine and medical science are human
social processes and they are ways that
we can situate ourselves within the
biological
Universe Dr mookery has done more than
almost anyone alive to make us aware of
this fact and to ask us to make sure
that we do that work in ways that are
both scientifically valuable and serve
Humanity that goal inspires me and
whatever field you work in I hope
similar questions will inspire you too
and I'm sure he will have valuable
advice for us all so please join me in
welcoming Dr sidar Mukerji
thank you president Mandel The Faculty
Scholars fellow honores and
friends and most importantly thank you
and an enormous congratulations to the
class of
2024 I'm deeply honored and humbled to
be able to participate at your
commencement and may I begin by asking
all of you yourselves to give yourself a
round of applause and don't stop until
your heart is full
[Applause]
please
continue
congratulations uh this may count as a
ceremony of the brain but I'm going to
talk from my heart I'm going to talk
about one
truth about one Journey to Find truth
and I'm going to leave you with one
task every graduation marks two
transitions a birth and a
death it would be tempting and easy of
course to begin with the birth and yes I
will come to that but perhaps
surprisingly allow me to begin with the
latter with death
parents and graduates don't worry this
is not a morbid
talk but an uplifting one it's a talk
that I hope that you will remember as
you think about your own birth and
Rejuvenation let me begin with a
personal
truth my truth is marked by two
statements and two
questions but first some context I'm a
physician an
oncologist I see cancer patients and my
goal is to treat and sometimes cure the
deadliest of
diseases and despite having a degree in
overeducation I
fail I fail
often there's a common Trope written
into the conventional ethos of medicine
that the patient fails the treatment but
for me that Trope is always reversed I
fail the patient
what happens at that
moment here we
arrive at the most profound of
Transitions and we arrive at a moment
that is
Elemental ancient and Universal a moment
that we've encountered since the birth
of our
species I have to State the obvious not
experienced it myself but I've borne
witness to it more than a thousand
times a 7-year-old girl with Advanced
leukemia died in a clinical trial last
month her heart fluttering at 300 beats
per minute as she held her mother's
hand a young English Professor with
ovarian cancer who was denied her dream
to finish her last book an elderly man
with prostate cancer who had just
welcomed a
grandchild in the days before these
patients and many others like them have
died I've asked them if they were
they've had things that they've wanted
to to say or do in anticipation of that
final
moment and of course the answers have
been Broad and diverse some have wanted
to climb
mountains some have wanted to read poems
I heard a fly Buzz some have wanted to
rage against fate some have wanted peace
and
sanctity but over time I began to see a
pattern a universality a convergence
abstracted
simplified stripped of
particularities every person that I've
met at this moment of transition wanted
to make four
offerings two statements two questions
directed at someone that they knew or
perhaps someone that they've never
explicitly spoken these words
to I want to tell you that I love
you I want you to tell me that you love
me
I want to tell you that I forgive you I
want to ask you for your
forgiveness four
offerings offerings so important and
profound that I must force myself even
even as I speak to the most attentive
and sympathetic of audiences to repeat
them I want to tell you that I love you
I want you to tell me that you love
me I want to tell you that I forgive you
I want to ask ask you for your
forgiveness love and
forgiveness death and
transition but what you might ask now
does any of this have to do with
graduation perhaps you're thinking oh
God he's picked up the wrong papers for
the speech this was the one he wrote for
a
funeral but no since we've broken the
rules of a commencement speech let's
continue to break some
more I want you to perform an exercise
some of you are sitting next to friends
some with parents some are together some
dispersed close your eyes if you'd like
turn to someone that matters in your
life physically or
mentally and really really think about
this as you say to them I want to tell
you that I love
you I want you I want to ask you to tell
me that you love me I want to tell you
that you
that I forgive you I want to ask you for
your
forgiveness do it this afternoon if you
wish to do it as you walk out of this
room or do it when you're at home
packing your suitcases for that new job
in New York or Toledo or Acra or New
Delhi but do it now to mark this moment
of transition don't wait for the moment
that you are inhabiting experiencing
encountering also marks a
transition there's a birth and the death
and here is the Crux this is the lesson
that we can learn from dying that we can
also apply to life and to living
waiting merely delays the inevitable do
it at this moment as you cross the door
or as you wait for the car to take you
to the airport with your over stuffed
suitcases just as you will do it when
you await the final Crossing
where there's nothing to carry and only
a lonely boat to help you cross the
river these four offerings two questions
and two statements mark my personal
truth it took me years even decades a
lifetime of immersion in medicine and
caregiving to recognize the universality
of these two simple sentences
first that there is a lesson in dying
that we must incorporate into living and
second that this lesson belongs not just
to the final Crossing but to every
Crossing including this one accept and
return love accept and return
forgiveness but perhaps I've left or
introduced a lingering sense of unease
in this
room I've tossed in a difficult
uncomfortable word and I've used it
without apologies I've used it with no
hyphens no inverted quotes
no italics no question mark at the end
not
truth but simply
truth and now you're thinking he's
really lost it having just finished
about death now he's going to talk about
truth
really yes really I have here two
props books published by Mahatma Gandhi
both both first editions both
collections of essays from the 1940s and
1950s the first is called Civil
Disobedience a working manual and the
second Freedom a users
guide nope I lied that's not true in
fact if you lose closely the first is
called Village
Industries and the second is called
Cooperative
farming I'll spare you the full contents
of this collection one contains a
scintillating piece on composting and
the manufacturer of
manure the second has an equally
intriguing piece on the various merits
of spinning cotton into coarse
cloth why why am I telling you all of
this because there is a mythopoetic
image of Gandhi popularized in films and
geographies in which a bespectacled and
half- naked lawyer reeling from
humiliating encounters with the British
in London and South Africa apparitions
suddenly in India like a peace Nick
cheser
cat this is comic book
Gandhi the superhero in a loin cloth he
wakes up one morning and marches to the
ocean shore to protest the Absurd salt
tax proposed by the Empire and thus
perhaps one is made to think is Born the
most significant of his personal truths
the idea of civil
disobedience but the real plot is
different the real Gandhi is at first a
deep scholar of history of law of
culture and of course
agriculture long before he becomes
Mahatma the Great Soul he is a searching
doubtful agonized peripatetic Soul he
travels through India on third class
train compartments he lives with the
so-called Untouchables and Spins cotton
to understand the nation's Soul he reads
vation
iously he consumes Buddhism Christianity
Hindu theology English poetry marks Mill
the writings of Luther he cleans toilets
he learns to farm and he makes
compost nearly half a decade passes and
then slowly like a slow burning fire it
begins to
come it here too buried in one sentence
on Village Life and I quote nonviolence
with its techniques of satyagraha
literally clinging to the truth without
violence and and non-cooperation will be
the sanction of our
community arguably one of the most
provocative sentences in the history of
politics in human history a sentence
that shook Nations sense Shivers through
colonial governments shamed armies of
men and toppled
Empires buried quietly in a book called
Cooperative
farming what do we make of
this these books and exploratory essays
within them represent an incredible
intellectual
journey in Cooperative farming Gandhi
found the seeds of non-cooperative Civil
Disobedience the compost was a metaphor
of transformation the decomposition of
the shreds and peels of a morally spent
Empire that would enable The Rebirth of
nation in Village government he
formulated the idea of localized
distributive self-reliant
governance in spinning cotton he learned
to spin
history truth then to Gandhi was not a
divine revelation but a discovery not a
product but a process it could only be
found could only be found through an
immersive Journey that took him across a
vast unbounded physical subcontinent and
an even vaster unbounded metaphysical
continent it had to be excavated brought
to life for it might be buried for all
you know in a
book truth was not divined it was
realized it was a fragile shape-shifting
thing a loin cloth not a straight jacket
it had to be learned studied
wrapped around oneself you had to learn
to feel it touch it know it you had to
fold it into shapes twist it and ask
whether the cloth would still fit and
perhaps most importantly you had to
doubt it subjected to reason and
skepticism pull it Tau to test its
resilience it is not a coincidence that
Gandhi's most famous book is not called
my conclusions about truth but rather my
my experiments with
truth
experiments with personal
truths there's only one challenge in
post col life graduation leaves you with
a singular mission to discover a
personal
truth but you won't find it easily
you'll have to experiment with it
question it reason with it you may have
to travel through your own metaphysical
continent a dangerous torturous Journey
that you should not underestimate imate
you may have to reject that truth at
first and only accept it once it is
passed the skepticism that your
education has taught you to
exercise you have to read it learn it
immerse yourself in it the point is this
this most magnificent institution has
prepared you to start the
journey and I know that you will take it
with utmost
seriousness your truth is not something
to be casually discovered
you will have to immerse yourself in its
history its geography the landscape in
iTab inhabits the stories it
encompasses Gandhi didn't have a liberal
arts education but he he invented one
from scratch with one sole purpose to
propel himself in his
quest
fortunately you've been armed with the
tools of reason and thinking and so as
you leave this August ceremony in this
beautiful place you begin your own
journey of Discovery it's time to begin
your experiment with
truth death truth I'm not going to talk
about taxes but we have covered a lot of
forbidden ground why not end this with
birth what again you might ask does one
do with a personal
truth I gave you four offerings but I
could also describe them as four
responsibilities I'm the child of a
refuge
refug in 1946 a few weeks before the
partition of India a transition so gory
and blood stain that it still defies
words and memory my grandmother a young
Widow then left what is now Bangladesh
with five boys and a steel
suitcase she arrived in Kolkata a
nervous Brack Broken City on the edge of
riots a city already overburdened and
spent she set up a home in a one room
tenament the children inhabited the room
and she slept in the makeshift kitchen
there's no money for food so there would
be money for books at night each of the
boys got half a piece of white paper and
a shared pencil to finish
homework I might note in passing that
over the last 5 years I've written three
papers that have formed the core for the
discovery of three novel Cancer drugs in
each case the essential idea was
scribbled with a pencil on half a sheet
of white
paper years later when my grandmother
came to live with us in Delhi the suit
steel suitcase had still that had been
fed across so many cities came with her
but it remained in the back of her
closet seals shut no one knew what it
contained she would Parry questions
about it and it would slowly be
forgotten when she died I opened the
suitcase there were of course
predictable object of a refugees last
grabbing
MOS of ardor and Desperation some
jewelry a portrait letters an old
shawl pockmarked by Ms but in the midst
of this wrapped in cloth were four
school
books
books some years before she had died I'd
asked her what I was to do with the
contents of the suitcase and she had
said mysteriously give them back but the
content was so outdated there was no
giving back it left me totally mystified
who cares about a math textbook from the
1940s in 1986 when I was 16 I walked
into the library at Berkeley University
there were shelves upon shelves of books
Einstein Newton the lives of a cell
Darwin Russo France fenon Baldwin
Dickinson Monroe in looking longingly at
those overstuffed shelves from which
knowledge might perhaps just pour out
like golden liquid if I just gave the
Shelf a small jolt I decided that I too
would make a transition I would also
pick up a suitcase and migrate seeking a
new life new knowledge and new
books it would be unseemly and frankly
desecrating to make any comparison
between my grandmother's migration and
mine but in keeping with the family
tradition I too underwent a transition
and a rebirth I came to study
abroad but it was only after I finished
medical school in my late 20s that I
returned to my my grandmother's
request give them
back stupid stupid me it wasn't the
books with their outdated equations in
Old School writing it was the
responsibility that comes with
Transitions and rebirths and it was
perhaps
fittingly a reformulation of the four
offerings and perhaps you can think
through them with me again I want to
understand how to return love I want to
understand how I can have my love
returned I want to forgive I want to
understand how to accept
forgiveness and so there you have it a
reformulation of my personal truths into
personal
responsibilities into
action it is the ultimate form of
rebirth since it enables the
emergence the composting of the new
you and that is the answer the purpose
of finding a person
truth is to transform it into an action
once you finished your experiment that
is once you finished the quest it is
time for action but not
before you will transform your truth
into a responsibility and that in turn
will enable the birth of your new
self it does not Escape me that I titled
my speech the four
offerings that word offering it is
operative here for it implies not just
an acceptance at
death but a giving at
Birth do both and do them with the
utmost conviction thank you so much
[Music]